OK.
And.
Skip.
OK.
The.
I think today.
They will join online only.
Try dinner.
But I think the all the goose coming.
Hello. Hey, good morning.
But what is?
Good morning. I'm audible, all of you.
So today everyone is online, huh?
It's fine.
We are going to start decision now.
So we were discussing about the what we
are discussing functions yesterday, right?
Let me share my screen.
We have seen the functions.
The next two things we are going to
discuss now.
One is Lambda functions and then map and
filter function.
After that we will go forward.
Assessment and quiz and then we will
start object oriented programming today.
I think the up to Lambda functions and
map filter we will do in first half.
In second-half we will discuss about the
object oriented programming.
So let's just start from here.
So just a quick recap what is function?
A function is a block of reusable code.
Means we have,
we can write the block of code whenever
required.
We just call that block of code that is
known as function.
Means we will write our thing with a name
we will define.
For example we have right define welcome.
And then we can call it whenever is
required. We can call it many times.
We can pass the argument to the functions,
we can pass the argument to the function
through the parameters,
and that parameter could be any type.
We can use N number of parameters.
In functions, right?
So why we use the functions?
The benefit of using functions are that
are for.
Reusability. Let me just do the slideshow.
Reusability.
We write once and use many times.
Now because you already have done those
functions, it will be easy to understand.
Modularity divide large program into
smaller parts. For example,
we want to create a number of functions
we can call which one is required.
We can call only that function,
so we can divide our program into smaller
parts.
Readability code is cleaner and easier to
understand which functions you are
calling.
This will write that function name.
It's easy to understand.
Debugging.
If there is any sort of error will come,
we will go to that function only and we
can check it.
So the debugging is also easier.
So the benefit of using functions are
reusability, modularity,
readability and debugging.
Right.
Easier devalue how we will define the
function.
We will write depth and then we will
write our function name and then we will
pass the parameter.
We can write the function without
parameter or we can write the function
with the parameter.
For example we have right here define.
Function function name parameters.
So define greet and print hello world.
We can define the function with the
parameters we can pass.
Parameters.
We can take the parameters from users and
their functions can return you the values
as well.
So if you want to return the value,
you will use the return keyword right?
If it is not returning the value,
you will not use this return keyword.
We can also use the default parameter.
If you are not passed the value,
then the default parameter will take
those values.
Let me show you an example of these
things.
Then we will start discussing about the
lambdas, right? Just one example, just to.
For recap, right? So here we go.
This is your folder.
That we every do using IML.
I'm going to create here one more folder,
new folder, folder name is day five,
right? So this is day 5.
In this day five folder we are going to
work today. I have right click here.
Open with VS code.
So we are in the day #5.
Here is new file.
Let me give the name to this one is the
recap dot PY.
Let me call recap D4D4 dot PY recap D4
dot PY.
So we want to just.
Recap the day #4.
We keep day day 4 dot PY right?
Then let me just.
Upload it as well for you so you can use
this one. We'll go here with.
dot com.
Let me write here new.
I will give you the new repository.
From there you can use.
You can download this today's content at
the end of the day.
Your number.
So this one is I'm writing this to upload
the things that you need not right get in
it.
Start of the day.
This is one permit.
Good to push.
Done. See here.
It's a recap day for us.
I'm going to write the recap code here
for the.
So functions, how will I do the function?
How will define the function?
We will write here def.
We will write the function name.
For example,
you want to write display fine.
So display this is a function you want to
write here.
This you are right print.
Welcome to the recap of functions.
OK,
this is the functions you have right now
you want to use this function.
To use this function what you will do you
will just call it to call you write this.
OK.
And from here you're late.
Python.
Recap.
under score TA4 dot PY.
Welcome to a recap of functions.
This is one function you have right?
And you have called it right?
Hello. OK.
All of you online one done.
OK.
Done.
Good. Great.
Then.
Then for example here I have write one
more function.
Here is I'm defining one more dev.
Let me call it.
Welcome here.
I have read the string name and I have
print here.
Print not a strings. I'll just name.
Print.
Welcome to.
Functions.
The start or miss and here we have write
the name.
You want to call this one as well.
So how we'll call,
we'll call it like this one.
Welcome.
From here you have passed the name.
This is sad.
And you have run it from here.
So welcome to function Mr. or Miss Sam.
This one is calling the welcome and
display is calling this display.
Done. See here one more functions.
For example I have defined one more depth.
It's a cube and we want to take a number.
No.
Here is.
Return.
No.
I don't know.
Oh, let me write it this way.
Uh.
Return. I will show you after this.
I have read this way.
It's a cube of number.
Cube num is equal to num.
And we have right here print.
Good call.
Even.
Number.
Num is equal to xlst.
You.
No.
This is one more functions we have
created right as well.
These function no one is returning the
values they are just.
This one is taking the parameter.
This one is taking the parameter now here.
I am great.
I know.
Is equal to input and input.
Enter number.
To find out.
Q.
Whatever the number user have entered,
we have assigned to this one.
Now if you want to call that method,
so you have write cube.
Find up.
So how it will execute this one.
First of all we have called the welcome
function right?
Then we have called the display function.
Here what we have asked,
we have asked enter the number to find
out the queue.
Whatever the number user have entered it
will be my number.
Then it will call my num.
From here this my num become num and it
will give num into num into num.
Three times it will multiply and it will
return here cube of given number.
My num is cube of num.
For example you have entered from here 2
so two become num.
So cube of number will be two into two
into 222 to the 424 to the 8.
So cube of number is 8.
Cube of given #2 is equal to 8. Fine.
See here. Let me run.
See here. Welcome to functions.
Here the cube. I want the cube of two,
so cube of two is wait.
Fine.
See,
this kind of revision will help you out
to understand it better, right?
So just 1015 minutes in the back morning,
it will do the same thing.
You will go to all the concepts that you
have done.
Is it clear up to this level?
So all three functions,
Play Sir.
no one is returning any value yet.
These are just without returning the
value.
Let's see if a function is going to
return you a value as well.
And one more thing,
I'm writing here one more function.
Turn up to this level, yes or no?
Any error, any issue you have started?
No, not yet. Not, not yet, not yet.
It's still trying.
OK. Thanks. Do it, do it fast. No problem.
Take your time completely.
It.
Thank you.
I think it's special. OK, so I guess.
OK.
Yeah.
OK, now see one more functions here.
I have right here def.
Let's see, for example,
we want to find out the square of a
number.
Spare No.
I have right here return.
Dum into dum.
That is returning the square OK and I
have comment these all calling so the
function is return but the calling we
have not done any so it will not execute
any of the functions here because you
have not done any calling. See here CLS.
So once you will call the function then
it will start working right.
It's returned here. It's working fine,
but we have not called any of the
function.
Now I'm going to do what I'm going to
take the username is equal to.
Input.
Enter.
User name.
Whatever the name user have entered,
we have assigned to username.
Then we have right.
Uh, my name.
'Cause we want a integer int dot uh input.
And input.
Enter.
Number.
To find out.
Tube and.
It's square.
Whatever the number user have entered,
we want to show the cube and the square
of that number.
So that next line you have to write to
call both the functions, right?
This is the question to you.
You got my question.
Now what I want to show,
I want to say show welcome to the
username whatever the name you have
entered and after that I want to show the.
Square of the number that user have
entered and the cube of number that user
have entered the function I already have
right for you. You have to just call them.
You got my questions, all of you.
But the online one.
Got it.
Yeah. Yeah, got it.
Got got.
So so that that that two line of code you
have to write to call those function one
This has been in.
is I want to call the welcome to function
Mr or miss whatever username you have
entered the second one I want to show the
cube of number is this one and the.
The square of number is this one right?
So that I have to do the code I already
have written functions,
everything I'm calling.
Also I already showed you how to call the
function.
Now you have to call the function which
one welcome cube and square 3 functions.
You have to call.
OK, that is sent for you. Do it.
Just two minutes task I'm giving you 5
minutes.
You got my question all of you.
You you understand the question right.
The question is we have a method display
here right? We have method welcome.
Here we have method cube.
Here we have a function square.
Here we have all these functions written
here.
Right now I have just take the username
from the user.
And this line is taking the number from
the user.
Now what I want I want that it will show
me welcome to function Mr or miss
whatever the username I have enter right
and then for example I I will enter one
number it will show me the cube of the.
That number and the square of that number,
so function is already returned.
You have to just call them.
You got it.
For welcome,
you will call to this welcome function
with 10:00 AM. Right. Four cube.
You will call to this cube number one and
four square. You will call to this one.
If you are able to do it,
that means you have understand the
functions properly.
If you are not able to do.
That means you need to.
Review again.
Done any of you.
See here. Right now if you run it,
it will doing enter username I have
entered Sam I enter number to find out
for example under four it's not doing
anything.
I want that it will show me welcome Sam
and the the cube of number is 4 the cube
of four is this one and this.
Part of what is this one,
the two things we.
So how will do any of you done?
Then, but only two come.
OK, I will check this.
Online, any of you have done? If yes,
please let me know.
Tom.
Good.
One is correct, this one is correct,
but this one is returning you the so if
it is returning your footprint problem.
Oh OK right where you have them correct
perfectly fine.
That's good.
So she have done. What's your name,
dealer.
Adila Adila so Adila have done it.
She have done. I have to do as well.
Do it fast, OK.
Yeah.
The.
Which is how we want output to be to
output, right?
How to right?
Is it we want to? Oh, oh, see. Yeah. See.
See, let me show you.
So you want to call this function,
let's say display. So how will light here?
Welcome. So you'll light welcome here.
Right. And you have passed from here.
Username so this line will come out first
enter username right,
then enter number to find out the cube
and square so you have entered the
username.
Let's say you have entered the SEM.
Right then you it will call the welcome.
Welcome to function, Mr or Miss Sam. Fine.
Then we want to call the cube.
So we have right here.
Square and Cube both you want, right?
So find out cube and square.
So we want to call for example Cube first.
So I write cube and from here I have
passed my number my number.
So the number you have entered it will go
here to the NUM.
So cube NUM is equal to NUM into NUM into
NUM.
And cube of given number is equal to that
number will come out.
Now we want to call the square so to call
the square I have right here print
because square is going to return you a
number.
So let me write here square number.
Is equal to. We have called the square.
The square of the minor.
So what it will do?
It will go from here we have passed the
number, for example the number is 4.
You have passed from. Here is 4 into 416,
so that 16 will return from here to this
one it will store inside this number,
right?
So return means it will return a number.
This one is not returning.
It's printing directly.
Here the number is returned.
You can store it somewhere and you can
display.
So to display I have right here print.
Square of.
I numb.
He is.
What is this quorum?
You can directly call the method also
that will return you the number.
We are right here.
Got it.
So this is how we are going to call the
function.
So this one is first we have call.
So it once we will call it,
it will do its work.
Welcome to function Mr or Miss the name
and we are going to cube so it will do
the cube we are going to call this.
Yeah.
Yes, you can do it directly here.
Also if you want you can control X in
place of this one you can write it here
directly.
OK, this one is also right.
You are calling this method from here,
but just to show you that this one is
returning a value that value we have
store somewhere and we are displaying.
So I have write that way.
Yesterday I have showed you this way
right?
So you can write this way or you can
write that way. So today you will use.
To to today you'll use this one.
This is good means you understand what we
are doing. This one is returning a value.
That value we have stored here.
You can give any name to this one.
You can give any name let's say.
Any name SQ. This is SQ.
Whatever this is variable inside this it
will store the value that value have
display over here. Now we'll go here.
CLS clear the screen.
And you will call it recap underscore D4
dot PY.
So the Python have not tried Python.
You.
Python recap day four dot PY, enter name.
Let me enter here.
Ali.
Then.
What's the?
Here is enter the number we have entered
3.
So welcome to function Mr Miss Ali bin
Mustaf Cube of given #3 is 27 the square
of three is 9.
So benefit of this one,
you can write anything.
It will return the value.
You can format it according to your
requirement and in this one whatever the
format the format will remain the same
right.
If you are writing the function here you
can change outside the function also.
The for example you want to print it this
way one more time, the light hair print.
You printed this way, let's say.
Number.
Bynum.
Squad.
The.
Screw.
But twice you have display now.
This is so any any style you can use in
this one.
This call it because this is returning
the value you will need just the value
and that format.
You can do your own under name.
Let's see we have right Ravi.
Here the number for example 2 welcome to
function,
Mr Miss Ravi Cube of given #2 is 8 square
of two is 4, #2 is square 4.
So it's up to you.
So that's the.
Thanks. If you'll want to use the return,
you can use it later on in anywhere.
So this is your complete code OK.
I've got a question.
Yes, please.
OK,
so for example like for the when you
define the square when you should,
you will have to write this word written
Mm-hmm.
that.
That's the only way or you can put a
result or whatever this.
Yes, the the see this one is.
Return is A is a specific name.
Return if you want to return the value,
we have to use this return only.
OK, OK. OK, that's the keyword. OK, OK.
This is a keyword. This is a keyword,
so that's the keyword you have to use
only return.
So.
So the advantage is that you the
advantage this over that you define like
cube you define only the cube,
you only give the.
Yes, the absolutely the.
The advantage I'm I'm telling.
The cute name. OK, when you. So what?
What is the advantage of using this?
I'm telling not advantage or disadvantage.
The thing is just two way of doing this.
OK.
Copy.
One is for example you want to do some
sort of calculation, right?
Hmm.
And after that calculation you need the
number and that number.
You further want to use fine.
So in that case you just use the the
return thing.
If you you want to print it directly then
OK, OK.
you will use the without return for
example this is square of number is come.
OK.
Yeah.
Right after that, what we want to do,
we want to do some sort of things with
this. For example,
here is we have created here a function
DAF let's say salary, bonus salary bonus.
OK. Here you write the salary.
Salary and you have returned the bonus
return.
Bonus is, let's see salary into.
0.10 So what is it doing?
It is returning the bonus later on.
You need this bonus to add into the
salary to show the salary with the bonus.
Now later on you want to do what you want
to deduct the TDs after this.
So you don't want to print from here,
you want to print after doing other
calculation.
This one is just we want to find out the
bonus.
So the benefit of using the return one
it's will return you the number that
number you further use.
You got it.
OK, try to comprehend. Alright, thanks.
Yes.
You can write paint in it as well,
but it's.
So no, you, you, you,
you don't want to see if you print it
from here,
then what the benefits if you want to
print as well, then what's the benefit?
We want to just use the number later on.
Fine. You can use your print also.
Let's see print.
And it will become the same method like
earlier. Welcome to.
Window.
Then you return this value.
Then you want to return this value.
You can do that, but that's not logical.
It's fine. You can do it.
You can write it.
That is not logical because see we have
two types of thing.
Try to understand these scenario right.
One is 1 type of thing is you have done
the calculation.
You just want to print the second type of
thing is you want to do something and
after doing the things you can return the
value and you can utilise it right?
So you can do both the things.
You can do here,
but then that return values go into the
vein, right? See,
let's see in simple words if you are
right here, print.
Let me just write the same.
You are saying this right you have right
here the square of.
Is let me just check.
Right. What she's saying,
I'm writing only that thing,
but that not the logical one.
I will tell you why it is not logical.
So here is.
It is.
Yeah.
And return yes.
See this one you are saying, right?
So here is OK here.
Uh.
Let it be the same, right?
Then I have run it.
My name let my name here. Sam.
Number is 2. We'll see here.
Her square of given #2 is 4 square of two
is 4 #2 square 4 fine.
So from the this one it's showing.
From here it's showing right now if you
have commented this thing.
Control.
Control. Casey,
I have come into this one I have right
here square.
Of my NUM right. You have rated this.
You, you. I have just call it right now.
I will ask you one thing.
So I have just called it. Here's the name.
Let's say sameer. And here's the number.
Let's say two so welcome function Sameer
Cube of given number is 8.
The square of given #2 is 4.
What's the difference between this and
that?
Is there any difference right now? No,
but but in the code there is a difference
and the difference is this number square
NUM is returning you a value.
It's returning you a value.
That value is where is that value that
that value is going to. It's not utilised.
Let's say I have right here.
Now one thing, let's try it here.
R value written well, right, so this RV.
Print I'm printing this R.
So this value is off where this value is
going. Now here is Python.
OK,
it's I I will tell you two way might we
will understand.
Here is 2 I have right so here is this RV
is 4 this four is no use OK you have done
it from there so I'm asking.
Why we should write here this return now
if I'll not write this one, what happen?
Different square square couldn't see you.
It will.
It will show you the square from here.
Why we are writing return there is no use.
No use.
Got my point.
So why we use the return once we need the
Yep.
value only, not the printing thing.
You got my point.
Yeah.
You. You got it or not?
See if I write this way.
I have removed that return thing.
What happened in this case?
Is it any error?
It This line will give to you this this
one.
No error.
No,
I will like let's just remove for this
OK.
one make it simple.
Is this line give you any error?
If I'll do this one no no.
So then why that return word there?
What the benefit of writing that return?
Nope.
To keep the value temporary for use.
Fine.
So there is 2 way when one functions
those returning the value those function
those not returning the value.
If you are dispelling from inside the
function, we need not return the value.
If you want to return the value and we
want to use it later on.
Then we'll use the return you got.
My point. Otherwise it will be the same.
So, so, so. So basically when you put.
It will be the same like the cube.
So.
Then what's the difference between these
two? No difference.
So basically,
so basically when you put return it keep
Mm-hmm.
the value in a RAM a temporary memory.
Yes, that, that, that value we have,
we will absolutely we will use it
It it holds the value to be used at the
next next OK.
anywhere that value only,
right we will we can do the we can do the
OK, until it's override.
further calculation with that value.
OK.
So for example here the salary this this
one.
All right.
Let me show you the salary bonus I have
right here.
So here is here is let me show you the
salary bonus.
So I have called this bonus of the salary.
Let me just show this example control PC
this one is clear.
Let me show you this one.
So here is we have right.
Let's see just one example I'm asking.
I'm discussing now the salary only and
here is.
Salad. So let me call my salad. OK,
enter salary to find enter salary.
Enter salary to find out.
Bonus right there is two more thing I
will show you.
After this you will get it's perfectly
you will understand it perfectly.
So here's the bonus.
Bonus is equal to what will be the bonus
we have to call salary bonus and we have
passed from here my salary right?
OK, you have pass it. We have print.
Salary.
Yeah, the salary. My salary.
And bonus bonus here is the bonus that
bonus. OK.
Here is one question for you.
For all of you.
After this we have done it.
So how it will execute?
How it will execute first this line will
execute right my input enter salary to
find out the bonus you have entered the
salary. Let's say you have.
10,000 so 10,000 into 10%.
Let me make it float not integer,
decimal point. We want to take.
Let's see float. We have taken the float.
It's salary. So 10,010 thousand.
10% of 10,000 will be.
100 so this is 100,
so hundred will be the bonus 100 or 10
means 1010% of 10,000 is 1000.
So here the salary and the bonus.
So it will show you the bonus.
And the salary? Now run it,
it will show you CLS.
Here is 10123 ten thousand.
So here is 1000 is the bonus 10% just one
zero. So 1000 is the bonus. No,
the question is.
I want this salary plus bonus salary
after bonus how you will.
Show the salary afterwards.
I want to print.
But it.
Portal.
Salary after bonus.
Is equal to.
Any of you what I should write here?
Salary after bonus?
I will get to know.
My my salary postponers.
My salary plus bonus. That's it. Fine.
So here is it is easy. You like here.
My salary plus bonus.
No.
You have printed right and you have run
it.
CLS Python recap, you are right 10,
000 and here this will be plus bonus just
11,000.
Got it clear through all of you this
thing yes or no? Yes. OK.
Yeah, OK. OK, let me copy first.
Yes.
No, no, no, no, no,
don't copy this right now.
One more question I want to ask you.
Control C here is.
OK.
I have paste it here.
Just a minute.
Control KC comment it out. I OK, OK,
do it first. You'll do so then.
After that,
I will ask that question that I want to
ask you.
Otherwise you will be confused.
Just write this one first. Note it down,
do it.
Then I will ask you that question that I
want to ask to make you understand this
one.
Very frankly.
Yes.
Yeah.
Done.
Doing or don't.
Done.
Then see now here is one question.
If I write the same function OK,
then all of you yes or no.
Not yet.
Not yet to do it, but you are saying yes.
She should know.
You should know how to say no as well.
If not, then say it.
I need 2 minutes more. OK. Complete it.
Fine. Fine, fine. Complete.
It will not work,
you just another one will be here. Listen,
you want to increase this one is for this
and for this.
You you want to increase the temperature
you can increase.
That's.
Would you say a con AC?
Would you say a con?
OK.
Good.
So you got it.
What we will do here from here,
we pass the salary.
It will return you the bonus, right?
And then this this bonus we all we have
utilised here and we have displayed here
right.
OK.
No, here is one more.
Done.
I have copied.
Control C.
I have commented this one control KC.
Now I'm writing one thing from you.
Control KC. Forget about those.
So here is a function.
OK,
I'm writing from the new one from here.
From the down control V here is a
function, right?
It's not returning the value,
but it's doing this way.
Bonus is equal to salary into so this one
and here is.
Salary bonus. This is a function, right?
This time we have rated this.
This is not returning the value right.
Yeah.
This is a simple function. Now here is.
There is the calling.
Where did the call?
Done.
Yeah.
Understood.
You want me to to copy or just see this?
You you can write how you can write this
function then after this I will ask you
that question to make you understand the
return time.
Done.
Yeah.
We have entered the salary, let's say 30,
000, so the salary is 30,
000 bonus is 3000.
It.
Mm-hmm.
Right.
I think could probably hi.
OK, this one is working fine right now.
If I want to find out I want to display
this thing.
Yeah.
I wanted this in this one printer salary
after bonus.
How I'll get it?
She.
Any idea?
Print salary after bonus.
Using this one.
Salary after bonus means we want to add
on the bonus as well. Can we do it?
Yes or no.
No.
No,
because that bonus is not returning here.
It's not coming here, so you can't do it.
So if you want that kind of thing,
the later on the calculation,
then you have to use the return you got.
My point?
That's why I have took that much time to
make you understand.
Till that time you will not understand.
I will. I will not get the sleep like you,
She.
right?
You got it.
You. You got it. Now you got it.
That's that's my mean. If you got it.
So see,
you understand what I'm telling means if
it is returning the value that value we
can further use and so later on we can
use it.
For example here is it was returning the
value. So what we have done we have.
Add the bonus into the Sally and give
that Sally plus bonus if tomorrow the
money come,
we want to add the bonus something more
so we add something more in the bonus and
then give it to.
But here it is not possible in this one.
This is the final thing.
If you have completed thing and you want
to print it, that's it.
Print go you you got my point.
Clear to all of you online as well.
Yes, Sir.
Fine, fine, great. Good to know.
Now this is the recap part.
We are going to start now.
The next thing that the lambdas right,
the function is clear to all of you.
Yep.
Now let's.
Next new.
Lambda EX dot PY.
Hello.
So this is the lambdas we are going to
discuss now here is.
Recommend default parameters request to
employment.
Lambdas anonymous functions are small one
line function.
If you want to write the one liner
function then we will go for the lambdas
anonymous.
Anonymous means someone who don't have
the name right that is anonymous unknown.
Right. So for example,
we want to do the add and we don't want
to create that function.
So for that we will go for the lambdas.
Let me show you here to try to understand,
see for example.
You have declared this function right.
Define function add.
I will light a.
In BC.
You want to add the number,
let's say NUM one and NUM NUM two or A or
1/2.
B.
You want to add and it it's gonna here
Yeah.
return what A+B.
So that's the functions right?
A+, BP.
The small thing you want to do.
Yeah.
And then once you will call it,
you will call like this one.
Ed.
Or let me do this one just a second.
This is sum.
So you could.
Let's say total is equal to a + b and
then you have print.
Yeah.
Total.
Is.
From spelling from spelling.
Yes.
Dota.
You have display here.
Fine, sorry.
Yeah, display.
This is the ad I will call it.
Or do you want to return so I will return?
It will return the total, right?
It will return the total and you want to
print will print the total from.
This one is the function,
so we will write right once you want to
call it.
How you will call we will call it here.
And.
Let's see. Result is equal to total.
Result is equal to.
Sorry add you have passed from year 1215
right and then you can print the result.
Yeah.
This is the simple function you will do
right so.
Lambda.
EX.
But this is not the thing that we are
going to discuss here.
We are going to discuss here the.
Lambdas.
So this way you will write the matter,
but this function have the name.
This function have a name,
the name is add if you want to create
this thing without without adding the
name so we can go for the lambdas.
We can use the lambdas here is Lambda add
is equal to this one.
So the same thing. We can write this way.
The same thing I have commented.
This one control KC.
I have rate here add is equal to Lambda
X&
Y 2 numbers we are passing and we are
adding here.
Let me just write note XY let me write AB
only.
A&
B we have pass and it's returning A+B.
Fine. So we will late print.
Yeah.
So this is the Lambda of this for the
same thing,
K into BK or B you will pass you will
call it here so A+B.
Reprint.
This is function this one so you can
write here.
For example you have passed from here to.
Anything you will pass it will give the
value of to this value.
2.
OK.
Right.
That's the laptop.
So that same thing,
these are two values you are passing and
this is the result and the result will
store inside this one right in this
variable.
Don't eat anything addition.
This is that issue. You want to multiply.
You can write multi.
Is equal to Lambda.
K into KB colon you can write K into BKB.
Similarly division.
Do you want to write?
Do you is equal to?
Lambda.
Maybe.
And you divided by B.
We want average.
From the AB?
A + b.
Divided by two. What else?
You want addition,
sub subsection you want sub.
Lunda.
AB.
2 -, B.
Yeah, right.
You have taken 2 numbers.
1.
Input and.
Input.
Under first number.
Yeah.
Turn the.
Second number.
Here is.
You want for example,
you want the subtraction print.
Subscription.
Result.
What do you have to do?
You will call Sup from here #1 number.
So this is the short way to write the
functions that is known as lambdas.
You are passing the two values.
And you are doing this.
Similarly you can call other the
subsection addition division.
So I have showed you the subsection.
If you want to call the addition you can
call add.
Let me call on Chalut call one.
I will call one more by duplication.
That's it.
A little multi.
These are one liner function lambdas.
Addition, these are the input value colon.
After that the result you want to do if
you want to print from here you can print
from here also if you want.
First, we'll do this,
then I will show you the printing from
inside as well.
This is multiplication result.
This is subtraction result.
You can call other also if you want
division average and all don't.
Oh.
Yeah.
Done.
Not yet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Mute.
Yeah, yeah, it's got taken.
Yeah.
You have a clue?
Hello.
My kids never do.
Invite 10 second of my.
Cool.
Oh, kept it.
Jim.
And they wanted to do something.
OK.
I can't.
What's your name?
Mm-hmm.
I.
I.
I.
I.
Significantly.
Thank you. Did you ask that?
Would you believe this better?
One just want to be jump for you to be
the language then you so.
So now.
Is number one become a #2 become B so #1
into number B.
So this this is the input values and this
is the calculation.
Yes, yes,
this is calling from here and this is
calling from here.
Got it.
Yeah.
How many parameters you can put that AB
can AB3D.
As as many as many as you want.
OK,
so the only advantage is the only
You can put one you.
advantage is that that you only can write
in in one line. OK.
Yeah. This is one liner, right. Yes, yes.
If we want to do a short thing,
why we will create a file if we want to
use it just directly, we can do it, right?
OK.
OK, OK.
Fine.
So we are going to take a short break now
for breakfast. After 20 minutes,
we will be here again. OK 11:20,
we will be here.
OK. Thank you.
Thank you. I love you.
We can go forward fast now.
Fine. Welcome back hope everyone is here.
Now start over the issue.
OK. Let me just go on our issue then.
See.
Yeah.
But.
No.
You are writing centre name then came
through the number to find out the key of
this one.
So you have taken the link it's passing
from from this one.
It's funny. I I call this.
The main 1.
No.
One page and then second thing,
why would it start on?
Yeah.
Is that the?
Actually.
So you do not.
We need.
Thinking.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
I think.
That's that's it.
How anyone can think about that that?
What do you are doing?
You are taking the island printing.
That's it.
See,
I put here one print they share right
here. Print, so it will print that value.
That's it.
Mm-hmm.
OK, we have done this one Lambda example.
You can see any number of things.
Yeah.
You.
OK, let's see.
One more example of lambdas.
We are right to the check even number
Lambda X let me write.
Otherwise you will see.
Check.
Board.
Is equal to Lambda.
And.
This is order number.
Yeah.
Can modulus.
Two is equal to equal to one else it's a.
E1 number.
So what we want to do,
we want to take a number from the user,
the single input.
If the number is divided by two and give
return a one that is an old number
otherwise.
Otherwise it's a even number.
Here we go.
So here is.
Enter number.
We'll check.
Or or even.
There is.
Enter number to find out 33.
There is, we have call it print.
Check out from here. We have pass #1.
It will pass the number from here,
whatever the number you have passed,
it will go here. Divide it,
check if it is old or even.
Them dark.
Example.
To find out.
Or or even number if the condition is
true then this one will be.
Display if the condition is fault then
this one will be displayed.
Right.
Yeah.
Done.
This or no.
It would.
Aye.
He.
Yeah.
OK.
I.
It.
People from.
It's.
Done.
OK then.
Next.
Map.
So what maps do it applies a function to
all items in an iterable. For example,
you have a list, right?
You have the list list have few numbers
like 1234.
You want to do what you want to just
double the numbers,
so we want to double the first number we
want to double the second number we want
to double the third number,
we want to double all the numbers that we
have inside the list, right?
So for that what we can use we can use
the map.
In the map,
we will write the map into that number.
Whatever number you have into two,
so it will just double that number.
And if you want to square the number,
you can write X into X2 twice.
So this is map.
Let me show you one example.
I have a question.
The lease is a function as well.
Sorry.
The lease is a special function because
map is a function.
Map is just map is a function list.
List is the list.
Lease is special function.
So you cannot write anything else,
it has to be leased to refer to the above
Absolutely, absolutely.
List is a function and we are discussing
list. OK.
the map.
Right now the map is applies a function
OK.
to all items and iterable if it is a list,
we'll write the list.
E.
If it is something else, we'll use.
So let me show you one example of this
list one.
So here is the number. For example,
you won't just double of that number.
Here is the square example I'm showing
the double, so here is.
I will show you few more things. First,
I'm showing you the same.
So here is we go.
This one is we will create a new file
here file name is MAP exam.
Map EX.
Dot  right?
You can use there also,
but just to put it in the separate file,
right so we have here numbers list.
Here are the number, let's say 10.
25.
30.
40.
Tool.
And one these are the numbers.
We want just the double of the number.
A better number.
Two into X.
Numbers we are displaying here print.
Double we'll go here.
Fearless.
Web EX.
Not by.
But right that.
Yeah, VX .5.
This is your list.
Oh, let me display it this way.
Speed cook.
Let me display the print.
What did you learn?
List.
There is I'm writing for.
Item in.
I said NUM in list.
In numbers.
This way you will display right and
you'll light here print.
Numb. And you want to end it with?
Recipes.
The.
I have rated.
Let me explain it how it is doing.
See, we will go to the map.
We will go to the Lambda X.
We will go to the each and every function
of that one into two.
We will do the two of the numbers list.
This is the list of numbers and we want
to do each and every members to multiply
to two.
And we will create a list and that list
we will store inside this double nums,
right?
So this one is the first time I have
display this.
This is your actual list original list
right?
Then we have double it.
So I'm displaying here the double list,
so we will print it here from here.
First let me.
CLS.
This should be and the code not plus.
You want to end it with this one, right?
So original list is 102030421 and double
list is 10.
Should be double list.
I have print again the same double number.
You have to put right? So.
So original list is 1025304021,
double list is 205030604082412.
Got it every number we have multiplied by
two.
Ah.
Done.
New line, new line.
This is the original list.
Is it double list?
Yeah.
We don't want all new line.
You can remove this this one we want one
new line because it's end with this
bracket.
So this is original list.
There's a double list.
15.
We have created a list of number and
using the map we have just multiplied
each number by two.
OK.
Yeah.
But I didn't keep the this the double
number is keep this same.
Sorry.
It just give the same list.
It didn't double the number.
Where?
This is the same list. This is the this.
Because the print you see the print is
the same numb exactly the same.
See the the the listen.
Numb in numbers. Oh, oh. Numb in.
Double numb. OK, OK, sorry, Sir. OK,
I make your mistake.
This is the numbers list and this is the
double numbers.
OK, OK.
This is the new list right?
So this is the value.
OK.
This is just the number.
You can write the same or you want to
write different. You can write different.
It have no issue.
Main thing is it's going to inside this
list and going to each and every number.
If you want right here the different
thing you can write or you can use the
same also for here is your ID enum.
So you want to print here D enum so
you'll let D enum.
So it's exactly the same.
Right.
The internal thing is no issue at all.
OK.
You can write here.
See this is ordinalist this one.
Because the.
This thing is available up to this,
so again you have declare it so it will
be the next time. This is the new thing,
right? So even if you won't write here,
numb here is numb as well.
So then there is not the issue,
it will in.
Means it will go to the in this
particular list. Inside it will go to.
In this particular list.
So this list have the original numbers
and the second list have the numbers
multiplied by two.
Frank.
OK.
It's up to you.
You want to use the same word or you want
to use the different. That's fine.
You can use,
but you have to tell the which list we
are going to use.
That is after the keyword.
Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
Let's go for philtre now.
Then this one all of you any doubt
question. If you have you can ask.
Philtre this is the map you want to add
on something you want to do some sort of
things. You can do philtre means.
Philtres item using a condition we will
use a condition to philtre the items
right.
For example here you have this number
list you want to find out the even number
you want to find out something.
You want to so far that you can write the
condition so the condition you will write
then it will be philtre let me show you
here only.
You copy the same thing control C control
case.
OK control Z control CI have copy this
one. I'm writing here one more new file.
This one is.
Philtre example right philtre example dot
.
Happy is that earlier example here.
This is the original list we have printed.
I have right here.
Even numbers.
List in place of map we have write
philtre.
X modulus.
2.
Is equal to equal to 0.
We have right here the condition if the X
/ 2 then we will put it inside the E1
numbers otherwise not.
There is print.
Even numbers.
From list as follows.
And we can print.
In place of this number,
we can write E1 underscore numbers.
Philtre PX dot Y.
There is even numbers from the list as
volumes.
So it will go to the list and it will
find out the even numbers only and give
it to you.
In place of map we will late philtre and
then it will give you.
The based on the condition it will give
you.
In place of map I have write philtre and
that doesn't.
OK.
Absolutely.
How do you?
Thank you.
I have to.
OK.
Thank you.
Hello.
Thank you.
Done.
So we have you the dictionary, sorry list.
So we have write list if we have any
other thing we have dictionary so then we
will write dictionary right?
OK, we'll try this one.
You have.
Following list.
I call it.
Our list.
Is equal to.
4.
To.
5-6.
73110.
Write code using philtre to find out.
All the numbers.
Less than.
Both.
From the one list.
Umm.
On the list.
Right,
so this is the question you have the code
in front of you, you will try.
Right.
This one is the question you have
following list.
This is the list 425673110.
OK, do it.
Right code using Philtre to find out all
the numbers less than five from the list.
Yeah.
3-5 minutes.
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah.
I.
But.
What?
Excellent.
Yeah.
It's.
The the.
Yeah, here we go.
Done.
Completed OK,
just share the screen please.
That's a complete.
No.
That's mother.
Share your screen. Please let me check.
Yes, Sir.
Are you sharing?
We said trying, Sir.
OK, no problem. Let me show you.
You say done if you're trying.
OK, see here,
this is the list right and the why I have
asked you it's exact the same thing.
So here is.
We want to write the code using philtre
to find out all the numbers less than
five right. So here is control B.
So here is.
The.
Our numbers.
List philtre Lambda X where X is.
X.
Less than.
5:00 and we have right here our list.
This is your list name our list.
But that's it.
You can print both the things if you want.
Don't see.
Orchestrator.
This is your original 1.
Original list is.
List.
And here is.
Yeah.
Searched.
There's a new list.
Fine. And this one is our numbers.
Yeah.
This is the original list our list right?
So here we are.
Find out our number list Lambda ** less
than five. So our list is this one.
There is Python.
So here is original list 425673110 and
this is 4231 less than five only. OK.
You can use it with dictionary as well
with tuple as well.
So in that one we will like *****.
I will show you one example with
dictionary as well.
First we'll do this one right.
This is the programme that I have asked
you to do.
Yeah.
So anyone have done it earlier or no one?
Then.
Earlier, are you there?
But yeah.
OK.
Yes.
Done.
Yeah.
So.
Mm-hmm.
Are you?
5-3 weeks 0500 in six weeks.
I.
Right.
OK.
Done. Yes or no.
Now let me show you one more example of
philtre using the dictionary,
right so here is.
This one is done complete.
Completed all of you.
Yeah.
Oh.
Done.
OK.
Here we go.
One more example using dictionaries,
right? So how will I dictionary?
Students info.
That's right, the students is equal to.
Here is.
Students marks.
For example, we have writers.
This is a list of what if?
Itinerary of this one. The students right.
Good.
So for example,
the passing criteria is 40% and we want
to find out the only the past student
right, the price passing criteria is 40.
You have to go to the 40 marks to pass.
If you are not going to the 40 marks you
are fail.
So we want to philtre out this one this
list to find out the passes student only
right.
Original is this one.
Print.
OK.
This is the original.
OK,
you want to find out the past students.
Pause.
Students.
Is equal to.
Yeah.
Late here in place of list this time what
you have to write.
Peace.
Tupper can not Tupper dictionary.
Dictionary dictionary.
So for dictionary we have here *****.
This is the Lambda.
Oh, Dan.
So item.
There is item.
Yeah.
Greater than.
Equal to 40,
right 40 and we will take it from where
we'll take it from our dictionary.
The dictionary name is student marks,
To din.
right?
Yeah.
Student marks,
student marks dot items the collection of
Yeah.
items so here is.
Print.
Class is good, it's.
Now you got it.
What the meaning of the list?
Because that was the list.
That's why we are using the list.
There's a dictionary,
so we'll write a dictionary.
I will go here.
Let me write one moment.
Why? Why? Why?
You have to put the dot items.
Sorry.
Why you have to put that dot items to
student marks dot item?
Why not just to the marks?
Because we because it's not work because
in dictionary we have two things.
One is known as keys.
And value.
And the second one is values,
so items means we are going to take both
the things values and the keys.
Oh.
Aye.
Or so you you also can put keys or values.
Right, right. So here is print all.
Oh, OK.
The students there is current.
Past student.
Cost student.
Item.
It don't get it. Hold, listen.
Items.
That one, the most dot items or item only?
It it is fine,
item item is fine but we have to write to
Yeah.
this way.
We have to write to the index.
Oh.
OK.
Item 11 this is 0. This is one item one.
Yes, it's.
0 is what which item Sam Sam 60,
is item 0, right?
Hold a second sixty Raj, Sandy.
Where is the we 35 metre?
Is not there right?
It's fine. Let me add the criteria.
Let me increase it by 50. See, this is 0.
This is 101. This this is one.
The 605035 it's one we are comparing,
not the name we are comparing to the
Index.
marks. This is 0. This is one OK.
So I'll so after that they check item 3.
Because you put item one.
Not, not, not not. Not. Item 3.
See this one is the key.
This this one we are comparing the values
not the keys. Fine. If you have the issue,
let me just show you.
You can write here values.
What do you write here?
Where do you?
Values, right and we will late here we.
Yeah.
I will understand it better we we greater
than equal to.
50 is it fine now?
What that means? This is the key.
The first one is the key,
OK.
the second one is value.
So we are comparing the value.
Value.
Is it OK now you'll understand it.
Yes, OK.
Admission.
So here the the traceable most recent.
All right.
We cannot convert dictionary update
sequence element 0 to sequence fine,
Can I call that this?
so that's values we want to compare so
value is on which place it is in at 0.
So we will light here I.
And here we write I.
Plus one.
One and then this one is items. OK,
so that comparison we don't to do control
I went.
T right here CLS.
Enter and see.
So now you got it.
We are comparing the values so wherever
the value is greater than equal to 50
then it will pass.
So this SEM is 60 surpass Raj 55 pass.
Mere 35 fail Sandy fail,
Neeraj pass deep fail. Garima Pass got it.
Yeah.
Yeah, but,
but why need we need to put number one
there can?
Can we just read out the one if we just
This.
put in the bracket?
No, no, no, no, this this is 0.
This is one,
Yeah, yeah.
this is 0 this is 101010101010101.
So we are comparing to these one.
Oh OK, I see.
This thing.
MMM.
You got it.
OK.
And if you want it in the for loop that
also will do. First we'll do this much.
So I need to follow the data that you
right tell me I have to use the data that
you type in, right?
Because it's there's several amendment
being done just now you you will you will
use this one.
This one is one day that's the one.
No, that, that,
that one is I have to explain to him only,
OK, that is fine.
This one is you have to use only this one.